---
title: Prologue
Author: Jeffrey Yao
date: 2021-02-18 19:16:30 +0800
categories: [Quantum Computing]
tags: [Quantum]
Math: true
---

# About

We are living admist the age of innovation. Too many novel techniques are poping out with enthusiastic people devoting their life for it. Only if you know where the wind is blowing, then you shall see your destination.

Just like the means of production metioned by Karl Marx in 19th century, the computational power is the new resource that everyone is craving to possess. But unlike lands or sickles, it is seemingly impossible to stop computational power from continuously growth.

With the termination of Moore's prophecy in the early 21st century, there has to be some evolution bottom top to keep the tendency. It has to be something different, to be better from the theory, to break the bottleneck that hold back the silicon chips. It has to be quantum computer.

Maybe the phrase "quantum computer" is a bit of misleading, I personally prefer the term "[QPU](https://docs.dwavesys.com/docs/latest/c_solver_1.html)"(quantum processing unit), just like GPU or CPU. It's not quite possible to replace the semiconductor computer. It's more like a computational unit that can tackle a specific group of tasks that is known for at least polynomial boost in QPU.

Quantum computing society is young yet aggressively growing, with more and more promising results announced both in experiment (Like Google’s 53 qubits [quantum supremacy](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-019-1666-5)) and theoretically. And there are bunch of people endeavor to try to connect the quantum computer (I have to use this phrase to keep consistent with others) with the terminal. Some of them are developing [programing language](http://horizonquantum.com/), some are trying to bridge the distance with [hardware](https://newsroom.intel.com/news/intel-introduces-horse-ridge-enable-commercially-viable-quantum-computers/). 

Anyway, I hope we can grow with the quantum computer society, to make this world a better place, to learn from the mistakes we made, to contemplate where we are heading, and where the destination is.



Jeffrey

Jan , 2020 
